Current Status of Cases of COVID-19 in South Africa
8 April 2020 - 20:15

Total cases: 1845
96 New cases
45 Full recoveries (Confirmed Negative)  
18 Deaths

The breakdown per province of total infections is as follows:
GAUTENG 782 
WESTERN CAPE 495 
KWAZULU – NATAL 354 
FREE STATE 88 
NORTH WEST 15 
MPUMALANGA 21
LIMPOPO 21 
EASTERN CAPE 45 
NORTHERN CAPE 13 
UNALLOCATED 11

POSITIVE CASES FROM NETCARE ST AUGUSTINE’S HOSPITAL – DURBAN, KZN
We have received a report from KZN Health MEC, Ms Nomagugu Simelane-Zulu that KwaZulu-Natal has 11 confirmed COVID-19 cases linked to St Augustine’s Hospital, in Durban. Furthermore, 3 of the deceased patients from KZN had been admitted at the hospital.
The COVID-19 positive cases include patients, health workers and other staff members. The KZN Department of Health and Netcare management agreed that the sections of the hospital affected be closed and no new patient admissions be permitted. This is a precautionary measure to allow for a thorough identification of areas within the hospital where there may have been infection control lapses.
The areas that were exposed to positive patients are also being disinfected. At this stage more than 150 tests have been conducted within the hospital and contact tracing is underway. We have advised that more tests be done on both staff and patients in order to determine the true extent of the existence of the infection in the facility, which may call for further interventions.
As part of intensifying the contact tracing and testing process, MEC Simelane-Zulu has also requested that Netcare avails a list of its patients that were exposed to the hospital as from the beginning of March. We therefore make a public announcement that if you were a patient at St Augustine’s Hospital from 1 March 2020 to date, we request that you contact the KZN Department of Health.
We convey our deepest condolences to the families and loved ones of the deceased. We also thank the doctors, health workers and all staff members of this hospital for their commitment to serve even during these difficult times.

Due to differences in reporting methods, retrospective data consolidation, and reporting delays, the number of new cases may not always add up sequentially. We are constantly cleaning & deduplicating the data to ensure quality.

--
For the latest news go to https://twitter.com/HealthZA or https://sacoronavirus.co.za/category/press-releases-and-notices/ 

📌Or reply with MENU to return to the main menu
